## The Solid pod as a permissioned Knowledge Graph # {#graphcentric}
In the previous section, we outlined the most common interpretation 
of Solid as a document-centric ecosystem, where the Solid pod takes the role 
of a permissioned document hierarchy. We demonstrated that even when querying
the Solid pod as a Knowledge graph, interoperability in the ecosystem is still
constrained by its document-centric interpretation.

This conclusion lead us to [TODO:: this]().


Therefore, we propose the definition of *the Solid pod as fundamentally being a permissioned, hybrid knowledge graph, exposed through Web APIs."*.
<!-- permissioned -->
With the term *permissioned*, we express the ability to manage permissions over any individual nodes and relation in the knowledge graph.
Note that we use this term to lean close to the current proposition for user control in Solid, 
but that we recognize the term *parameterized* as a potential evolution, where next to only user permissions,
any number of parameters can be retained for the individual nodes and relations in the knowledge graph. 
<!-- hybdid -->
The term *hybrid* expresses the ability of the knowledge graph to store any kind of data as nodes in the knowledge graph 
in the form of blobs, for which metadata can be maintained in the knowledge graph.
<!-- knowledge grap -->
For the term *knowledge graph*, 
we adopt the definition proposed by [TODO:: how to do this citation????]():
"*Herein we adopt an inclusive definition, 
where we view a knowledge graph as a graph of data intended to accumulate and convey knowledge of the real world,
whose nodes represent entities of interest and whose edges represent relations between these entities. 
The graph of data (aka data graph) conforms to a graph-based data model, 
which may be a directed edge-labelled graph, a property graph, etc.*"
<!-- Web APIs -->
And finally, the definition states that this knowledge graph can be exposed using any suitable Web API,
so that we do not constrain the possibilities of the ecosystem to the capabilities of any specific API.



{:.comment data-author="RD"}
Ruben V, can you specifically reread the above section to make sure I did not mess up?

### A fundamentally different interpretation
<!-- The interpretation -->
With the proposed definition, we want to provide a shift in interpretation from the ecosystem.
Where in the current ecosystem, the document hierarchy of a Solid pod is constraining factor,
it can instead be perceived as one of the many possible interfaces
that can be constructed over the internal knowledge graph of the Solid pod.
In this new interpretation of the ecosystem, the document hierarchy then no longer defines the 
authoritative source for the ordering of data on the Solid pod,
but can be used to represent any number of hierarchies over the data in the knowledge graph of the Solid pod,
based on the requirements and assumption of applications interacting with the Solid pod.
In this ecosystem, the innovation surface is no longer constrained by a single 
document hierarchy that forms the authoritative source for the data on the Solid pod, 
but by a knowledge graph that can be exposed over any suitable API and over which you can construct any number of document hierarchies.


<!-- advantages  -->
In this interpretation of the ecosystem
any application can write their data to the pod knowledge graph.
Where in a document structure, implications of which application wrote which data is often
captured in the semantics of the location of a document in the hierarchy,
a knowledge-graph based model requires the semantics of these interactions to be captured in the data.
This way, users can 

In terms of control, the knowledge graph definition of the Solid pod 
does not impose any restriction on the modeling and management
of these permissions on the internal data graph.


<span class="todo">expand this advantages section.</span>

<!-- The current Solid protocol as a KG -->
We note that the proposed interpretation of the Solid ecosystem 
does not invalidate the current Solid protocol.
It however changes the implication of the exposed LDP interface of the Solid pod
from the authoritative source of data, to an interface over the internal 
knowledge graph held by the Solid pod.
Here, the documents in the LDP hierarchy can provide 
views on the internal data, over which the permission mechanisms
can be retasked to manage controls over specific views 
on the internal knowledge graph, instead of 
managing views over arbitrary data documents 
generated by applications.

























